Add Manual deployment guide for Azure (#133)
scalar-labs/scalar-kubernetes: docs/ManualDeploymentGuideScalarDLOnAzure-1.md

# Deploy Scalar DL on Azure

Scalar DL is a database-agnostic distributed ledger middleware containerized with Docker.

> It can be deployed on various platforms and is recommended to be deployed on managed services for production to achieve high availability and scalability, and maintainability.

Author: Thank you for your suggestion, updated in 4791dc7

This guide shows you how to manually deploy Scalar DL on a managed database service and a managed Kubernetes service in Azure as a starting point for deploying Scalar DL for production.

## What we create

![image](images/azure-diagram.png)

In this guide, we will create the following components.

* An Azure Virtual Network associated with a Resource Group.

> * An AKS cluster with a Kubernetes node pool.

Author: Changed it to `An AKS cluster with 2 node pools` in 4791dc7

* A managed database service.
    * A Cosmos DB Account.
* A Bastion instance with a public IP.
* Azure container insights.

## Prerequisites

You must have required permissions as specified in [Cloud permissions document](./CloudPermissionsForScalarDLOnAKS.md) to create cloud resources to deploy Scalar DL on Azure.

## Step 1. Configure your network

Configure a secure network with your organizational or application standards.
Scalar DL handles highly sensitive data of your application, so you should create a highly secure network for production.
This section shows how to configure a secure network for Scalar DL deployments.

### Requirements

* You must create a virtual network with a subnet for bastion.

> * You must create 2 subnets with the prefix of at least `/22` for AKS, one subnet must be created with the name `k8s_ingress` to create an envoy load balancer.

Reviewer: I asked a similar question in aws PR, but I think the prefix condition is more appropriate for recommendations.

Also, there are some IP ranges that cannot be used, so it would be better to attach the following link.
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/configure-kubenet

Author: >I asked a similar question in aws PR

I used prefix used in scalar-terraform.

>  but I think the prefix condition is more appropriate for recommendations.

Moved it to recommendations and also added the link in b2c656c

### Recommendations

> * You should create a bastion server to manage the Kubernetes cluster for production.

Author: Creating subnet for bastion is included in requirements

### Steps

> * Create an Azure virtual network on the basis of [Azure official guide](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-network/quick-create-portal) with the above requirements and recommendations.

Reviewer 2: Need to create a Bastion, right?
It's inconsistent.

Author: OK. Added one more step to create bastion in 4791dc7

> * Create a bastion server on the basis of [Azure official guide](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/linux/quick-create-portal).

Reviewer: It would be better if all three steps of virtual network(with resource group), subnets, and bastion were included. (aws as well)

Author: Added steps in b2c656c

### Requirements

* You must have a database that Scalar DL supports.

### Steps

* Follow [Set up a database guide](./SetupDatabase.md) to set up a database for Scalar DL.

## Step 3. Configure AKS

This section shows how to configure a Kubernetes service for Scalar DL deployment.

### Prerequisites

Install the following tools on the bastion for controlling the AKS cluster:
* [Azure CLI](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli): In this guide, Azure CLI is used to create a kubeconfig file to access the AKS cluster.
* [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/): Kubernetes command-line tool to manage AKS cluster. Kubectl 1.19 or higher is required.

### Requirements

* You must have an AKS cluster with Kubernetes version **1.19** or higher for Scalar DL deployment.
* You must create a new `user node pool` with the name `scalardlpool` for Scalar DL deployment.
* You must select the subnet other than `k8s_ingress` subnet for creating the AKS cluster.
* You must create a Kubernetes cluster with `service principal` as the Authentication method.
* You must create a Kubernetes cluster with `Azure CNI`.

> * You must add a role assignment to the `k8s_ingress` subnet to access the newly created AKS cluster service principal using the role of `Network Contributor`.

Reviewer: Do we need to configure the service endpoint?
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cosmos-db/how-to-configure-vnet-service-endpoint

Author: Yes, I have added a recommendation in database guide to configure service endpoint in 805dc17

### Recommendations

* You should use Kubernetes node size `Standard D2s v3` for Scalar DL node pool.
* You should create 3 nodes in each node group for high availability in production.

> * You should configure autoscaling for the AKS cluster on the basis of [Azure official guide](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/cluster-autoscaler#set-the-cluster-autoscaler-profile-on-an-existing-aks-cluster).

Reviewer: I think we can enable `Autoscale` when setting up `nodepool`, but do we need this too?

Author: Thank you, We dont need to do this, removed the recommendation in b2c656c.

Reviewer 3: I think we need to specify the auto scaling option in recommendations because we have a section for [Maintain Scalar DL pods](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalar-kubernetes/blob/manual-guide-azure/docs/MaintainPods-1.md)

### Steps

* Create an AKS cluster on the basis of [Azure official guide](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/kubernetes-walkthrough-portal#create-an-aks-cluster) with the above requirements and recommendations.
* Configure kubectl to connect to your Kubernetes cluster using the `az aks get-credentials` command.

    ```console
    $ az aks get-credentials --resource-group myResourceGroup --name myAKSCluster
    ```

## Step 4. Install Scalar DL

> After creating a Kubernetes cluster next step is to deploy Scalar DL into the AKS cluster.

Author: Thank you for your suggestion, updated in 4791dc7

> This section shows how to install Scalar DL to the AKS cluster with [Helm charts](https://github.com/scalar-labs/helm-charts).

Author: Thank you for your suggestion, updated in 4791dc7

### Prerequisites

> Install Helm on your bastion to deploy helm-charts:

Author: Changed to `You must install Helm on your bastion to deploy helm-charts` in 4791dc7

> * [Helm](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/): helm command-line tool to manage releases in the AKS cluster. In this tutorial, it is used to deploy Scalar DL and Schema loading helm charts to the AKS cluster.

Author: Thank you for your suggestion, updated in 4791dc7

   Helm version 3.2.1 or latest is required.

### Requirements

* You must have the authority to pull `scalar-ledger` and `scalardl-schema-loader` container images.
* You must confirm that the replica count of the ledger and envoy pods in the `scalardl-custom-values.yaml` file is equal to the number of nodes in the `scalardlpool`.

### Steps

1. Download the following Scalar DL configuration files from [the scalar-kubernetes repository](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalar-kubernetes/tree/master/conf). Note that they are going to be versioned in the future, so you might want to change the branch to use a proper version.
    * scalardl-custom-values.yaml
    * schema-loading-custom-values.yaml

2. Update the database configuration in `scalarLedgerConfiguration` and `schemaLoading` sections as specified in [Configure Scalar DL guide](./ConfigureScalarDL.md).

> 3. Create the docker-registry secret for pulling the Scalar DL images from the GitHub Packages.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Create the docker-registry secret for pulling the Scalar DL images from GitHub Packages.
```

Author: Thank you for your suggestion, updated in 4791dc7

    
   ```console

>     $ kubectl create secret docker-registry reg-docker-secrets --docker-server=ghcr.io --docker-username=<github-username> --docker-password=<github-personal-access-token>

Reviewer 4: It would be helpful to describe that the GitHub PAT is required to work with ghcr.io. (In the Prerequisites section?)
And the scopes of the token should also be described. I believe that `read:packages` is only the one needed, right?

Author: Thank you for the suggestion, I have added prerequisites in b2c656c.
>  I believe that read:packages is only the one needed, right?

Yes.

    ```
   
4. Run the Helm commands on the bastion to install Scalar DL on AKS.
    
   ```console
    # Add Helm charts 
    $ helm repo add scalar-labs https://scalar-labs.github.io/helm-charts
    
    # List the Scalar charts.
    $ helm search repo scalar-labs
    
    # Load Schema for Scalar DL install with a release name `load-schema`
    $ helm upgrade --install load-schema scalar-labs/schema-loading --namespace default -f schema-loading-custom-values.yaml
    
    # Install Scalar DL with a release name `my-release-scalardl`
    $ helm upgrade --install my-release-scalardl scalar-labs/scalardl --namespace default -f scalardl-custom-values.yaml
    ```

Note:

* The same commands can be used to upgrade the pods.
* Release name `my-release-scalardl` can be changed as per your convenience.
* `helm ls -a` command can be used to list currently installed releases.

> * You should confirm the load-schema deployment has been completed with `kubectl get po -o wide` before installing Scalar DL.

Reviewer 4: Since the shorthands have been removed elsewhere,

```suggestion
* You should confirm the load-schema deployment has been completed with `kubectl get pods -o wide` before installing Scalar DL.
```

Author: Thank you for the suggestion, fixed in c496abd

* Follow the [Maintain Scalar DL Pods](./MaintainPods-1.md) for maintaining Scalar DL pods with Helm.

## Step 5. Monitor the cluster

It is critical to actively monitor the overall health and performance of a cluster running in production.

> This section shows how to configure monitoring and logging for your AKS cluster.

Reviewer 2: I think it's too blur. Monitoring the cluster you meant here is monitoring what?

Author: Added more details 805dc17

> 

Reviewer 2: Should we add alerting? (at least as a recommendation)

Author: Yes, Added alerting as recommendation in b2c656c

### Steps

> * Enable monitoring of Azure Kubernetes Service on the basis of [the official guide](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/containers/container-insights-enable-existing-clusters).

Reviewer 2: Following the official guide will monitor what components?
I think it's a general guide so it won't monitor Scalar-specific components unless specified.
Can you clarify?

Author: We can only monitor general matrices such as CPU, memory etc of the pods and nodes.

### Prerequisites

Install Helm on your bastion to deploy helm-charts:

* [Helm](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/): helm command-line tool to manage releases in the AKS cluster. In this tutorial, it is used to deploy Scalar DL and Schema loading helm charts to the AKS cluster. 
   Helm version 3.2.1 or latest is required. 

### Requirements

* You must have the authority to pull `scalar-ledger` and `scalardl-schema-loader` container images.
* You must confirm that the replica count of the ledger and envoy pods in the `scalardl-custom-values.yaml` file is equal to the number of nodes in the `scalardlpool`.

### Steps

1. Download the following Scalar DL configuration files from [the scalar-kubernetes repository](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalar-kubernetes/tree/master/conf). Note that they are going to be versioned in the future, so you might want to change the branch to use a proper version.
    * scalardl-custom-values.yaml
    * schema-loading-custom-values.yaml

2. Update the database configuration in `scalarLedgerConfiguration` and `schemaLoading` sections as specified in [Set up a database guide](./SetupAzureDatabase-1.md#Configure-Scalar-DL).

> 3. Create the docker-registry secret for pulling the Scalar DL images from the GitHub registry.

Author: Thank you for your suggestion, Updated in 1f391fc

Note:

* The same commands can be used to upgrade the pods.
* Release name `my-release-scalardl` can be changed as per your convenience.
* `helm ls -a` command can be used to list currently installed releases.
* You should confirm the load-schema deployment has been completed with `kubectl get po -o wide` before installing Scalar DL.
* Follow the [Maintain Scalar DL Pods](./MaintainPods-1.md) for maintaining Scalar DL pods with Helm.

## Step 5. Monitor the cluster

It is critical to actively monitor the overall health and performance of a cluster running in production. 
This section shows how to configure monitoring and logging for your AKS cluster.

### Steps

* Enable monitoring of Azure Kubernetes Service on the basis of [the official guide](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/containers/container-insights-enable-existing-clusters).

## Step 6. Checklist for confirming Scalar DL deployments

After the Scalar DL deployment, you need to confirm that deployment has been completed successfully. This section will help you to confirm the deployment.

### Confirm Scalar DL deployment

* Make sure the schema is properly created in the underlying database service.

> * You can check if the pods and the services are properly deployed by running the `kubectl get po,svc,endpoints -o wide` command on the bastion.

Author: Thank you for your suggestion, Updated in 1f391fc

    * You should confirm the status of all ledger and envoy pods are `Running`.
    * You should confirm the `EXTERNAL-IP` of Scalar DL envoy service is created.
    
    ```console

>     $ kubectl get po,svc,endpoints -o wide

Author: Thank you for your suggestion, Updated in 1f391fc

    service/my-release-scalardl-envoy-metrics     ClusterIP      10.0.20.189    <none>        9001/TCP                          2m29s   app.kubernetes.io/app=envoy,app.kubernetes.io/instance=my-release-scalardl,app.kubernetes.io/name=scalardl
    service/my-release-scalardl-ledger-headless   ClusterIP      None           <none>        50051/TCP,50053/TCP,50052/TCP     2m29s   app.kubernetes.io/app=ledger,app.kubernetes.io/instance=my-release-scalardl,app.kubernetes.io/name=scalardl

    NAME                                            ENDPOINTS                                                     AGE   
    endpoints/kubernetes                            10.2.0.4:443                                                  159m
    endpoints/my-release-scalardl-envoy             10.2.0.42:50052,10.2.0.52:50052,10.2.0.63:50052 + 3 more...   2m29s
    endpoints/my-release-scalardl-envoy-metrics     10.2.0.42:9001,10.2.0.52:9001,10.2.0.63:9001                  2m29s

>     endpoints/my-release-scalardl-ledger-headless   10.2.0.45:50051,10.2.0.51:50051,10.2.0.62:50051 + 6 more...   2m29s

Author: Thank you for your suggestion, Updated in 1f391fc

It is critical to actively monitor the overall health and performance of a cluster running in production.
This section shows how to configure monitoring and logging for your AKS cluster.

## Recommendations

* You should configure alerting for the AKS cluster on the basis of [Azure official guide](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/containers/container-insights-metric-alerts#enable-alert-rules)

### Steps

* Enable monitoring of Azure Kubernetes Service on the basis of [the official guide](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/containers/container-insights-enable-existing-clusters).

## Step 6. Checklist for confirming Scalar DL deployments

After the Scalar DL deployment, you need to confirm that deployment has been completed successfully. This section will help you to confirm the deployment.

### Confirm Scalar DL deployment

* Make sure the schema is properly created in the underlying database service.

* You can check if the pods and the services are properly deployed by running the `kubectl get pods,services -o wide` command on the bastion.
    * You should confirm the status of all ledger and envoy pods are `Running`.

>     * You should confirm the `EXTERNAL-IP` of Scalar DL envoy service is created.

Reviewer 4: It seems that the `EXTERNAL-IP` is not assigned (marked as `<pending>`) unless the `service.beta.kubernetes.io/azure-load-balancer-internal` setting in `schema-loading-custom-values.yaml` is changed to `false`. Is it correct? If so, can you describe this?

Author: Do you mean in `scalardl-custom-values.yaml` , 
>service.beta.kubernetes.io/azure-load-balancer-internal setting in schema-loading-custom-values.yaml is changed to false. Is it correct?

We dont need to change the setting to have the `EXTERNAL-IP`.

## What we create

![image](images/azure-diagram.png)

In this guide, we will create the following components.

* An Azure Virtual Network associated with a Resource Group.
* An AKS cluster with 2 node pools.
* A managed database service.
    * A Cosmos DB Account.
* A Bastion instance with a public IP.
* Azure container insights.

## Prerequisites

You must have required permissions as specified in [Cloud permissions document](./CloudPermissionsForScalarDLOnAKS.md) to create cloud resources to deploy Scalar DL on Azure.

## Step 1. Configure your network

Configure a secure network with your organizational or application standards.
Scalar DL handles highly sensitive data of your application, so you should create a highly secure network for production.
This section shows how to configure a secure network for Scalar DL deployments.

### Requirements

* You must create a virtual network with a subnet for bastion.
* You must create 2 subnets for AKS, one subnet must be created with the name `k8s_ingress` to create an envoy load balancer.

### Recommendations

> * You should create a bastion server to manage the Kubernetes cluster for production.

Reviewer 2: I think we should describe alternatives to using a bastion server since some users can't do it due to their rules.

Author: Updated Recommendation in 675650b

* You should create subnets for AKS with prefix of at least `/22` on the basis of [Azure official guide](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/configure-azure-cni).

### Steps

* Create a Resource group on the basis of [Azure official guide](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-resource-manager/management/manage-resource-groups-portal#create-resource-groups).
* Create an Azure virtual network on the basis of [Azure official guide](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-network/quick-create-portal) with the above requirements and recommendations.
* Create subnets on the basis of [Azure official guide](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-network/virtual-network-manage-subnet) with the above requirements and recommendations.

> * Create a bastion server on the basis of [Azure official guide](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/linux/quick-create-portal).

Author: Updated sentence in 675650b

### Requirements

* You must have an AKS cluster with Kubernetes version **1.19** or higher for Scalar DL deployment.
* You must create a new `user node pool` with the name `scalardlpool` for Scalar DL deployment.
* You must select the subnet other than `k8s_ingress` subnet for creating the AKS cluster.
* You must create a Kubernetes cluster with `service principal` as the Authentication method.
* You must create a Kubernetes cluster with `Azure CNI`.
* You must add a role assignment to the `k8s_ingress` subnet to access the newly created AKS cluster service principal using the role of `Network Contributor`.

### Recommendations

* You should use Kubernetes node size `Standard D2s v3` for Scalar DL node pool.
* You should create 3 nodes in each node group for high availability in production.

### Steps

* Create an AKS cluster on the basis of [Azure official guide](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/kubernetes-walkthrough-portal#create-an-aks-cluster) with the above requirements and recommendations.
* Configure kubectl to connect to your Kubernetes cluster using the `az aks get-credentials` command.

    ```console

>     $ az aks get-credentials --resource-group myResourceGroup --name myAKSCluster

Reviewer 2: Since we can copy the string from GitHub console now, we should remove `$` in the beginning, otherwise users have to do it manually every time.
Please do the same for other commands.

```suggestion
    az aks get-credentials --resource-group myResourceGroup --name myAKSCluster
```

Author: Updated in 675650b

* You must have the authority to pull `scalar-ledger` and `scalardl-schema-loader` container images.
* You must confirm that the replica count of the ledger and envoy pods in the `scalardl-custom-values.yaml` file is equal to the number of nodes in the `scalardlpool`.

### Steps

1. Download the following Scalar DL configuration files from [the scalar-kubernetes repository](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalar-kubernetes/tree/master/conf). Note that they are going to be versioned in the future, so you might want to change the branch to use a proper version.
    * scalardl-custom-values.yaml
    * schema-loading-custom-values.yaml

2. Update the database configuration in `scalarLedgerConfiguration` and `schemaLoading` sections as specified in [configure Scalar DL guide](./ConfigureScalarDL.md).

3. Create the docker-registry secret for pulling the Scalar DL images from GitHub Packages.
    
   ```console
    $ kubectl create secret docker-registry reg-docker-secrets --docker-server=ghcr.io --docker-username=<github-username> --docker-password=<github-personal-access-token>
    ```
   
4. Run the Helm commands on the bastion to install Scalar DL on AKS.
    
   ```console

>     # Add Helm charts

Reviewer 2: I think it's better to separate the commands for easy copy.

Author: Updated in 675650b

    $ helm repo add scalar-labs https://scalar-labs.github.io/helm-charts
    
    # List the Scalar charts.
    $ helm search repo scalar-labs
    
    # Load Schema for Scalar DL install with a release name `load-schema`
    $ helm upgrade --version <chart version> --install load-schema scalar-labs/schema-loading --namespace default -f schema-loading-custom-values.yaml
   
    # Install Scalar DL with a release name `my-release-scalardl`
    $ helm upgrade --version <chart version> --install my-release-scalardl scalar-labs/scalardl --namespace default -f scalardl-custom-values.yaml
   ```

Note:

* The same commands can be used to upgrade the pods.

> * Release name `my-release-scalardl` can be changed as per your convenience.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Release name `my-release-scalardl` should be changed at your convenience.
```

Author: Thank you, updated in 675650b

## Recommendations

* You should configure alerting for the AKS cluster on the basis of [Azure official guide](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/containers/container-insights-metric-alerts#enable-alert-rules)

### Steps

* Enable monitoring of Azure Kubernetes Service on the basis of [the official guide](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/containers/container-insights-enable-existing-clusters).

## Step 6. Checklist for confirming Scalar DL deployments

After the Scalar DL deployment, you need to confirm that deployment has been completed successfully. This section will help you to confirm the deployment.

### Confirm Scalar DL deployment

* Make sure the schema is properly created in the underlying database service.

* You can check if the pods and the services are properly deployed by running the `kubectl get pods,services -o wide` command on the bastion.
    * You should confirm the status of all ledger and envoy pods are `Running`.
    * You should confirm the `EXTERNAL-IP` of Scalar DL envoy service is created.
    
    ```console

>     $ kubectl get pods,services -o wide

Reviewer 2: Ditto. (better to separate)

Author: Updated in 675650b
